This sermon is brought to you by Buford Road Baptist Church, the speaker today as Pastor Tony Kahoot.
Take your Bibles and turn with me to 1 Samuel, Chapter 27.
And I want to talk to all of you.
I want to narrow it down a little bit in our focus for ladies.
We get a little bit more precise as we zero in on motherhood.
But the lessons that we're going to talk about today are paramount.
They affect us all.
No matter what age you're in, especially if you're a young mother and you have children, or you are mother-to-be, your mother soon-to-be, your mother in the future, or you're teaching grandchildren or great-grandchildren, the lessons that I'm going to give you today are exceptional because they are all important.
And I hope that you will take them to heart.
Don't just listen to these words today.
Listen to God's word.
Take them to heart.
meditate on them.
But more than that, apply them.
Apply them to your heart and life.
So we're going to be talking about this morning for the next few moments, and I'm going to be brief today.
I know that most of you, many of you have plans after the service, and I certainly don't want to take advantage of you being here today.
We want to make sure that you can get to where you need to be in a reasonable amount of time.
In 1 Samuel chapter 1,
I think, ladies, we find probably one of the sweetest verses in all of the Bible.
I hate to be accurate with this point, but it's the truth.
It's a sad truth.
But did you know, ladies, that if it were not for most of you, there would be no spiritual?
leadership in your home.
And really that role has reversed because God has called men to be the spiritual leaders of their home.
But if the man will not rise and he will not hearken, I am so thankful for godly women who has risen
to the awareness of your responsibilities.
And so today, listen, as we honor all ladies, not just mothers, mothers-to-be, mothers of yesterday, I hope and pray that all of our ladies listen carefully because you're still in the teaching mode.
You say, not me, my years are over.
Hey, listen, let me remind everybody in here today, especially every senior,
And we had people to stand just a minute ago.
If you're a mother and you're 75 years old, if you're 80 years old, would you remain standing?
Listen, let me tell you this.
The truth of the matter is that our race, our life, our worthiness on this earth will not be completed until the Lord takes us home.
Caleb and Joshua were the only two out of the 12 spies sent into the land that had enough faith to go.
Caleb, at the age of 80,
Seniors, listen carefully.
And back in those days, I'm sure there were no pills for all of the ailments.
No therapist.
No psychiatric help and no rehab centers.
And listen, Caleb was 80 years old.
And he said, I want that now.
faith and determination.
So let me tell you this, it doesn't matter how old you are or how feeble you are, listen carefully.
Your life, no matter what you're in, I see a walker, I see a wheelchair, I saw a cane.
Listen, it doesn't matter.
Hearing aids, it doesn't matter.
If we know the Lord Jesus, He has called us to be salt and white.
Do you know, you can be a silent witness, just like you can be a silent prayer partner.
God works in silence.
He said, well, I don't see how in the world it can.
When Jesus was being interrogated, the word says, and He opens not His mouth.
He spoke with His life.
Take this message to heart today.
And 1 Samuel chapter one, I think, is one of the most precious scriptures in all of the Bible, especially.
I dedicate this to all of our mothers here, all of our ladies here today.
Look at this.
Hannah is praying, and she said, for this child, I pray.
And the Lord has given me my petition.
Notice that.
Which I asked of him.
Heavenly Father, bless this service today.
Use it for your glory.
Have your perfect way of will in Jesus' name.
And all God's people said, Amen.
This is an amazing story before us, and a man by the name of Elkana.
He had two wives.
He sure had his hands full.
I'm sure that must have been a great chore, and their names was Hannah and Paniah.
Some of you that are familiar with these Old Testament stories, I know that you are.
Acquainted with was this one and this scripture says that Paniah had children and Hannah did not In in verse 5 of that chapter chapter 1 the word says but unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion For he loved Hannah, but the Lord had shut up her wound.
She had a dilemma and in verse 6 in her adversary also provoked her sore made fun of her poked at her Ridiculed her belittled her
for to make her fret because the Lord had shut up her womb.
Now, as a result of that, Hannah got depressed.
I'm going to paraphrase a lot of this for you so that we can move quickly in an expedient matter this morning, but she got depressed.
And when you study the Word correctly, one of the causes of Hannah's sorrow came about because of the institution of polygamy.
Now, you think about that.
the day, a moment, and then when you get home this week.
There were many men in the Old Testament who participated in that.
It wasn't God's plan.
But God worked in their lives, nevertheless, for the time at hand.
Back in the beginning, you have to remember that God made Adam alive.
He made Adam out of the dust of the ground, and He made Eve out of his rib.
So basically, ladies, all of you this morning are primary when you think about that.
Don't ever forget that.
You've got a very special place.
But it was never proven, this thing of multiple lives, it was never proven in the Scripture to bring happiness and righteousness.
And this particular story, because of it, Hannah got extremely bitter.
And that bitterness created
an enormous amount of jealousy in her life.
Now, verse 15, according to it, it made her a woman of sorrow.
And Hannah answered and said, no, my Lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit.
You think of that.
You have to keep in mind that even though Hannah was a godly woman, she still got depressed.
And it became an extremely sorrowful place in her life.
And so let me say this.
To everyone here today, you can be a Christian.
You can be born again, washed in the blood.
You can be sealed, saved and you can be on your way to heaven.
And it's still possible for you to know Jesus as your savior and still at times get depressed.
That's just a fact of life.
Just because you know Jesus, Jesus gives life and he gives abundant life.
He came to give us life more abundantly.
But let me say this, in this abundant life, in this Christian faith, in the Christian walk, you can, because of the hurdles and the challenges and the despondencies of life, you can be depressed at times.
This is a good example of that.
Hannah was.
She was a consecrated woman.
She feared the Lord.
She was a lovable woman.
She had a gentle spirit.
Penile, on the other hand, was harsh and she was haughty.
Hannah, on the other hand, she was a thoughtful woman.
She was a blessed woman.
But one of her greatest attributes, I believe, is that she was a praying woman.
And I want to encourage every mother in here today to learn some lessons from this great praying mother.
Because in spite of her depression, in spite of her brokenness, and in spite of her sorrow, she prayed.
And I believe there are multitudes of broken and bitter and sorrowful women and mothers
today who do not pray."
That's a catastrophic situation.
Troubles and sorrows, I believe, rush into all of our lives at time.
And as a believer, if we're where we need to be, it will usher us into the throne room of heaven.
But let me say this, but not just troubles.
Daily prayer time should be in all of our lives that escort us to the throne of grace.
multiple times during the day.
Hannah desired a son.
She desired a child.
She prayed for a son.
And it's an interesting prayer here that we read in verse number 27.
Most good mothers will want to keep their children always close to them.
I find that to be admirable, but sometimes shielding your children
from God.
And you might say, well, that's not possible.
I pray for my children all the time.
I want them to have all the love of Jesus.
But when you stop and think about this, what are we doing to really make those things fruitful in their lives?
But in Hannah's case, she said, Lord, if you give me a son, when he's weaned, she said, I will take him to the house of God and I will leave him there and I will dedicate him to you.
I will give him back to you.
And so in 1 Samuel chapter one in verse number 20, I want you to read these verses.
I'm going to read them for you very quickly.
Wherefore, when it came to pass, when the time was come, about after Hannah had conceived that she bear a son and called his name Samuel, saying, because I have asked him of the Lord.
And the man, Alcana, and all his house went up to offer unto the Lord the yearly sacrifice and his vow.
But Hannah went not up.
For she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him.
And he may appear before the Lord, and there abide forever.
And how kind of her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good, tarry until thou have weaned him, only the Lord establishes word.
So the woman abode and gave her son suck until she weaned him.
And when she had weaned him,
She took him up with her with three bullocks and one ephra flower and a bottle of wine and brought him unto the house of the Lord in Shiloh.
And the child was young.
And they slew a bullock and brought the child to Eli.
And she said, oh, my Lord, as thy soul liveth, my Lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, pray unto the Lord.
For this child I pray.
And the Lord had given me my petition, which I asked of him.
Therefore, also I have lent him to the Lord.
As long as he liveth, he shall be lent to the Lord and he worship the Lord there.
Now, let me say this.
Hannah's sorrow and her depression and her predicament, her sincerity, it prepared her for further blessings from the Lord.
Because after the birth of Samuel,
She had three more sons and two daughters.
God really gave her five for one.
And that's a grand entrance for her loan to God of 500 percent.
And it's a great spiritual truth.
And that's this.
Many of us are not ready for great blessings until we have gone through great fire.
I want you to meditate on that.
I want to give you six
lessons of a god and mother.
Let me say this, ladies, if you have small children or you want to have children, you have children in your household, you have grandchildren, you have great-grandchildren, somebody that you're having an influence over.
Listen, let's go through this in the realms of realities.
And I don't want to give you a bunch of love today.
I don't have time for that neither do you.
Time is ticking in your life.
Time is ticking in your child's life.
Time is ticking in this service.
Let me say this.
Ladies, do you teach your children how to tie their shoes?
Do you teach your children how to walk?
Do you teach your children how to talk?
Do you teach your children not to eat with their hands?
Do you teach your children how to put on their clothes?
Do you teach your children how to get along with siblings?
Do you teach your children how to pick up their room?
Do you teach your children how to be responsible in different chores?
Well, you would say, well, of course, preacher, isn't that what a mother is supposed to do?
I mean, what mother would sit at the kitchen table when their child is two, three, four, five, six, seven years old and eat with their hands?
We teach our children how to take a bath, how to brush your teeth.
And I could go on and on and on this morning with the necessities of cultivating a human being.
But do you know what's absent most of the time in teaching and training them lives?
And that's the importance of their relationship with the Lord.
Let me share this with you.
It's important, ladies, regardless of how old you are, I'm talking about under your roof, train up a child in the way you should go.
I'm talking about when you're responsible for them.
Some of you have grandchildren living with you, or some of you have custody things going on where they're in and out more than they're not.
And so what I'm talking about, when you are presented with an opportunity of responsibility, and you have to keep in mind that children are heritage of the Lord.
So here's the thing.
If we're going to teach our children how to do all the things that we just mentioned, why is it that we don't teach them?
the importance of loving God with all of our hearts, all of our minds, all of our souls.
We say, well, I teach them that Jesus loves the world.
Jesus loves the little children of the world, red, yellow, black, and white.
We're all precious in His sight.
I teach them how to say, now lay me down to sleep.
I pray the Lord my soul to keep.
Ladies, come on, let's get real.
Why are we not teaching them that as for me and my house will serve the Lord?
From the crater, to the nursery, to the Iwana program, Sunday school, youth group, choir.
You see,
We occupy ourselves with so much of what I got to get done and what I need to do.
And if I don't make this money and this won't get...
Listen, we can... My kids, we need King's Dominion.
We need the Smoky Mountains.
And I love all of that stuff.
But listen, if we're going to teach our children how to be respectful human beings,
We have to remember this.
Seek the Lord and His righteousness.
And all of these other things will be added on you.
Seek He first the Kingdom of God and His righteousness.
You see,
If we're going to be honest and truthful, it really doesn't matter.
It's not a priority.
If it was, things would be quite different in our homes.
And when they're quite different in our homes, it would be quite different in our church.
You say, preacher, you're preaching this morning.
Can I have a witness?
It's the truth.
These six lessons here, listen to this.
We have to teach our children how to love God.
It's not going to be done on a roller coaster every week.
It's not going to be done at some trip, some outing, what you got to do, family reunion.
Look, all that stuff is important.
I get that.
But we have to be real about what we're doing when we teach our children all of these other... And listen, we invest in that teaching.
We give them music lessons, we give them bowling lessons, we give them all kinds of lessons.
When they're missing all the lessons here, we have to teach them how to love God.
Romans 8 teaches us.
Where Paul said in verse 38, He had to go through some hard lessons to get to this place.
And I will tell you this.
All of our families are going to face some hard lessons at some point in life.
We're going to need verses like this that we can fall back on and we need to teach them how to love God back and do to run me chapter seven and verse nine.
Know therefore that the Lord God, he is God, the faithful God, which keep it covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations.
Listen, Jesus ought not to be one thing in your home.
He ought to not be one thing in your month.
Jesus ought to be.
everything all day in your family.
Number two.
And most of these, every one of these listen, they apply to men as well.
Father's Day is around the corner and we'll get back to it for these special teachings.
But listen to this.
Number two, we've got to teach our children to trust God.
That he's more than just an imaginary being.
We have to teach them that we were made in His likeness and in His image.
We have to teach them to trust Him with all of their heart.
In Psalms 33, verse 20, the word says this, our soul waited for the Lord.
He is our help and our shield for our heart shall rejoice in Him because we have trusted in His Holy Name.
Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according as we hope or we trust in Thee.
Number three.
We've got to teach them how to fear God.
And God is not a bully in the sky, and God is not somebody that we need to be frightened over.
But listen, this word fear, it's talking about respect and reverence.
In Proverbs 1.7, the fear, the reverence, the respect of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge.
but fools despise wisdom and instruction.
In Proverbs 8.13, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil in pride and arrogance and the evil way in the forward mouth do I hate.
Point number four, we've got to teach them how to serve God.
And let me say this
It's one of the things that I was in reference to in the beginning of the message today, because there are several ladies here today that I saw with my own eyes, serving, not to show up here and there, but serving.
Pastor, you know, my life is complicated.
My life is full.
My life is this.
My life is that.
But you stop and think about it.
Every person in here today falls into that category.
I don't know anybody in here that has servants and maids and is just living in a high life.
Every one of us in here have obligations and responsibilities.
We have deadlines.
We have criterias.
We have health.
We have bills.
We have employers.
We have employees.
Everybody in here is affected by stuff.
But let me tell you something.
There are people in here today that have been serving the Lord since I have known them.
When I met you, Miss Daphne, I met you and your husband back here nailing sheet rocked him off.
They weren't even married at that time.
But I watched her life grow.
I watched the son, the S-O-N, shine down on her life, her family's life.
And I've watched her grow up.
I've watched her serve the Lord.
And today, she's still serving the Lord, not only teaching in our school, but she's doing amazing things in the church as well, for the church, for the love of God.
We've got to teach our children to serve God.
Because listen carefully, if you're not
If you ask yourself this question, how strong would our church be if every member were just like me?
Wow, I can't believe I said that.
But hey, is it not the truth?
How church...
Listen, that's something for us to take home and meditate on.
How strong would our church be if every member were just like me?
So, Brother David, I would think that there would be a multitude of people joining the choir this week.
You know what I saw?
He didn't see it.
He didn't see that I saw it, but I saw it.
I'm going to tell on him.
because he did an immaculate job.
Brother Michael, he was out there cutting grass on Friday.
He didn't see me seeing, but I saw him.
I asked Brother Steve when I got in here, someone said, who cut the grass?
I knew in my mind he did.
I didn't know the rest of the way.
And Brother Steve, let me tell you something.
It takes an army of people.
In every church community,
to keep things moving and thriving.
How strong would our church be if everyone was just like me?
We've got to teach them to serve God.
We have to do that, Frank.
You know what?
Let me say this quickly.
Our time is moving.
I'm going to try to get through these last two points real quick.
But let me say this.
When the Bible talks about the last days and the latter days, theoretically, we have been in the last days since the days of Jesus.
The New Testament spoke about those.
But when you go back to the prophecies of Daniel, Daniel spoke about the latter days.
The latter days are different than the last days.
The last days are going to be difficult.
But the latter days are even more difficult.
And it's the latter days that's going to usher in the rapture.
So here's the thing that I want you to know.
We're not just in the last days.
We're in the latter days.
That means that we're in the last of the last of the last days and Jesus is coming back and what are we doing?
Are we going to be a church without spot a wrinkle when he comes?
Listen, we've got to get engaged.
We've got to serve the Lord.
We've got to teach our kids to serve and they're watching you.
Friends, I'm in my twilight.
I'm doing everything I can to push this thing over the line.
And to get us where we need to be prepared for the Lord's coming, some of us got to get busy.
Some of us got to get busy and put our hands on the plow.
Notice this, number five real quickly, our musicians come.
We've got to teach them to obey God.
In 1 Samuel 15, verse 22 in Samuel said,
as great delight and burn offerings and sacrifices in obeying the voice of the Lord.
Behold to obey.
Look at this.
It's better than sacrifice and to hearken than the fat of our hands.
And James 1.22, the Word says, be ye doers of the Word and not hearers only deceiving your own selves.
And number six, we have to teach our children to worship God, to worship God.
I wonder how long has it been since there has been something that has just lit your fire, lit your heart.
Kindled old flames to where in our hearts we were wept, or on our countenance we wept, and we remembered some of the things that God did in our hearts in our lives of yesteryear.
And we have asked God, God, would you allow me to feel your presence in my life one more time, like I did at that special time in my life?
God, when I wept, when I cried, when I pleaded, when I prayed,
I did everything God, you know, when I was closer to you than I have ever been in my heart in my life.
And God, more than anything, I want my family at that place.
I want my family to experience that.
I want my family to have that holy zeal upon their life.
I think there's probably been a lot of drought in our life.
Well, let me say this.
We have to teach our kids how to worship Him, how to honor Him.
That's not necessarily being emotional.
Worshiping Him comes from our heart.
And nobody can look at you and say, well, you're spiritual, you're not spiritual, you're spiritual, you're...
Listen, that's not how it works.
But really worshiping, here's the thing.
I think when we get to the place where we really worship Him, worship Him, there's a lot of changes that will be made.
in our homes.
I want to close by saying this, our church will only be as strong as our home.
Do you remember before there was a church there was a home?
I say, oh God, in Jesus' name,
Bring us back to a place where we love you more than health and wealth and prosperity.
We love you more than anything, above everything.
God help us to be what's honorable and pleasing in your sight.
Use us for your glory.
And may Jesus be the light that we shine, the words that we speak.
the witness that we demonstrate, not only to those abroad, but may we be an encouragement to one another in the house of God.